[Music]
ten ways to survive an earthquake people
who live in an area with a lot of
seismic activity really need to know
what to do before during and after an
earthquake in fact no one is 100% safe
from this disaster because you never
know where you might be traveling or
living in the future so pay close
attention to these safety
recommendations that could save your
life one day one make your house your
fortress if your region or state has
high seismic activity it's better to be
prepared for earthquakes if you are not
sure how prone to earthquakes your area
is you can find this information on
special websites like http temblor net
arming yourself with this knowledge will
help you be aware of possible dangers in
the future fortifying your house is a
good place to start to do this you
should move all the beds away from
windows this can save your life if an
earthquake occurs at night strengthen
shelves so that heavy objects won't fall
on you during tremors cover all glass
surfaces in your home with special
shatterproof film this can save you from
serious wounds and bleeding in case of
disaster to prevent gas and water leaks
get an automatic shutoff device or a
main switch so that you can quickly kill
the gas and power in the entire house
keep extra fire extinguishers batteries
flashlights and emergency food supplies
in your home
always store necessary medicines in your
medicine cabinet have an expert test
your houses foundation so it won't slip
during an earthquake get earthquake
insurance for your home this will really
help you out after a disaster
- if you're in a building if you're in
some building and you feel the place
vibrating see falling objects or here
glass breaking don't panic stay calm and
try to reassure others never leave the
building during an earthquake the second
you feel the tremors of an earthquake
drop cover and hold on drop right where
you are on to your hands and knees this
is a safe position that allows you to
slowly move toward shelter use one arm
to cover your head and neck
a massive desk or table makes a good
shelter if there's nothing in the room
to hide under at least stay away from
the windows
remain in this position and bend over as
much as you can to protect your vital
organs hold on like this until the
shaking stops
if you are able to find some shelter
hold on to it using one hand and be
prepared to move with it as it might
shift do you get it now drop cover and
hold on
learn this rule by heart it could save
your life
3 if you're outside
be ready to help people in case you're
out in the middle of disaster during the
tremors don't enter buildings and don't
run around them stay outside move away
from power lines tall buildings and
roads try to find shelter and hide and
again drop cover and hold on for if
you're in a car being in a car during an
earthquake is really dangerous panic on
the road can turn into a serious
accident so remember to slow down and
find a safe place to stop the car
preferably the curb avoid powerlines and
high-rise buildings don't get out of the
car until the earthquake stops five if
you're on the beach or near the shore if
you feel the shocks
somewhere by the water don't wait around
to be told what to do an earthquake can
trigger a tsunami so it's better to
collect your things immediately and move
to higher ground six if you're in a
wheelchair in case you're in a
wheelchair and you see and feel an
earthquake starting look around for
shelter try to get there as fast as you
can then lock your wheels cover your
head and neck with your hands and
anything else available like a book rug
or pillow and hold on to something
sturdy
so remember lock cover and hold on if an
earthquake has never occurred in your
city there are online resources where
you can read the public recommendations
for people using a cane walker or
wheelchair this website for instance has
some important information on the matter
WWF quake country org slash disability
[Music]
seven if you were in a stadium if
watching your favorite team at the
stadium has suddenly been interrupted by
an earthquake stay where you are never
start a panic in a crowd instead get on
the floor in the space in front of your
seat bend over and cover your head and
neck with your hands stay calm and
reassure others eight if you are in an
elevator if you're thinking about using
the elevator to get out of the building
during an earthquake think again stay in
the building or use the stairs if
necessary the fact is that electricity
during an earthquake is unstable and can
easily go out if you're caught unaware
in the elevator then take the following
actions lie down on the floor cover your
head with your hands wait until the
elevator starts working again get out on
the next floor and use the stairs 9 if
you are in bed sometimes earthquakes
happen at night if you've woken up by
the room shaking and realize there's an
earthquake happening try to do the
following stay in bed protect your head
with a pillow and lie face down if
there's a shelf above your bed or a
ceiling lamp that can fall on your head
then move to a safe place 10 if you're
trapped under rubble if by any chance
during or after an earthquake you become
trapped and can't get out from beneath
debris and rubble here's what you should
do to survive don't move
it'll just kick up dust and can get in
your eyes and lungs cover your mouth
with a cloth or piece of clothing don't
light a lighter or matches don't shout
it can be dangerous because of dust if
you have a whistle use it so that
rescuers can find you if you don't have
one
see if there's a pipe nearby you can
knock on to alert them
that finishes off our list but don't go
anywhere just yet it's crucial that you
always keep in mind some general rules
for evacuation overall evacuation rules
evacuation is one way to protect people
in case of natural disasters major
industrial accidents and disasters if
you've received a notification that an
evacuation has started you should close
all windows and shut off the gas water
and electricity in your homes
immediately collect only necessary
things and exit the building in a calm
and organized manner through the
emergency exits after leaving the
building find a safe place if you can't
leave the building find a table and drop
cover and hold on if you're trapped
don't panic try to get your bearings and
give signals about your location don't
shout
knock or bang on metal slabs or pipes
remember that the first shocks are the
strongest from 5 to 40 seconds after
that there may be a temporary lull and
then another push if you have any tips
you'd like to add to this list please
tell us in the comments and we'll be
sure to highlight your useful advice
share this video with your family and
friends to help them stay safe in case
of an emergency and give it a like so
that more people will see it if you're
new here subscribe to our channel so
that you won't miss any of our important
updates stay with us on the bright side
of life
[Music]